ABSTRACT-metabolic-efficiency.md, before:

% Measuring the efficiency of urban metabolism
%
%

Thomas Ravalde

*Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London*

James Keirstead

*Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London*

# Abstract

Multi-resource (MR) systems are at the heart of socio-economic development processes.  Such systems convert various input resources into useful outputs; and notable examples include energy conversion supply chains, water treatment processes and refineries. However these processes can create significant environmental sustainability challenges due to resource depletion and non-useful/harmful outputs. It is therefore important that we can measure the efficiency of resource consumption in MR systems, which is often done using 'indicators' which quantify environmental or economic performance. 

Of particular interest to assessing the resource consumption of MR systems within industrial ecology is the *multi-resource trade-off problem* (MRTP).  For example, if we replaced one technology within a system with an alternative, which provides the same output but using a different input mix, which configuration would be 'optimal'? Which system is preferred if technology A uses 1 kg of water and 100 J of energy, and technology B uses 2 kg of water and 50 J of energy, in view of specific contextual challenges?

Urban areas are an important MR system subset, and they face a call to adopt principles of industrial ecology to move from linear to circular resource consumption patterns [@Leduc2013]. Using the 'urban metabolism' framework [@Kennedy2007], we review the literature to describe metrics which can be used to address the MRTP and provide a comprehensive interpretation of 'urban metabolic efficiency'. We categorise the metrics according to (1) whether or not they unify different resources into a single measure; (2) whether they see resources from economic or biophysical perspectives; (3) how easily they can be calculated from an urban metabolism study; and (4) whether they detail the performance of sub-systems within the MR system. We apply these ideas to example urban metabolism data and discuss our findings.

Commit message:

Started to redraft metabolic efficiency abstract following updates to work.

ABSTRACT-metabolic-efficiency.md, after:

% Measuring the efficiency of urban metabolism
%
%

Thomas Ravalde

*Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London*

James Keirstead

*Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London*

# Abstract

We investigate different approaches to assess the performance of multi-resource (MR) systems. MR systems are networks of processes which convert resource inputs into useful goods and services and include agriculture, factories or even entire economies. For a given set of system outputs, alternative resource inputs are often possible, and so performance measures are needed to determine the best system configuration for a particular goal. For example, manufacturing a car from recycled metals may consume more energy than when using virgin metals, and the different methods therefore will perform differently according to chosen objectives, such as material and energy efficiency. 

We identify several performance measures and define them according to a novel framework, which divides them into two categories: (1) 'black-box' metrics, which can be calculated from a system's aggregate inputs and outputs; and (2) 'grey-box' metrics, which require knowledge of resource conversion processes within a MR system. Metrics in the former category include water consumption and carbon footprint; the latter category includes exergy analysis and ecological network analysis.

Socioeconomic development and resource consumption is focussed in urban areas, therefore making them an important application of our metrics, which can be calculated from urban metabolism data. We calculate eight black-box metrics for fifteen global megacities, and find that performance is poorly correlated between measures. [TODO Fill in this explanation gap.] This suggests that assessments should adopt grey-box approaches and consider flows at the level of individual processes within a city. We present the results and insights from this analysis. Finally we make recommendations on how to improve urban metabolism accounting to assist grey-box metric calculation: firstly by including greater detail on conversion process and resource quality; secondly on making their use accessible to decision makers.
